
DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF THE debie1 BENCHMARK PROGRAM


The on-board software for the DEBIE-1 instrument, a satellite-mounted
detector of micro-meteoroids and space debris, was developed by Space
Systems Finland Ltd under contract (Contract reference DEB-FIN-CO-001,
issue 1, dated 6.4.1998, and signed 29.4.1998 by Seppo Korpela on behalf
of Space Systems Finland Ltd and on 30.4.1998 by Juhani Lehmusvirta on
behalf of Patria Aviation Oy, with both Detailed and General Statements
of Work attached) to Patria Aviation Oy with the European Space Agency
(ESA) as the end customer. The DEBIE-1 instrument, with this software,
was flown on ESA's first PROBA satellite.

With the permission of Space Systems Finland Ltd, a copy of the DEBIE-1
software was reduced and converted by Tidorum Ltd into a portable
program for use as a benchmark for testing, evaluating, and comparing
tools used to develop and verify embedded real-time programs. This
benchmark program is called "debie1". It is a derived product of the
DEBIE-1 on-board software.

Patria Aviation Oy, Space Systems Finland Ltd, and Tidorum Ltd hereby
allow the copying, distribution, publication, and use of the debie1
benchmark software, without compensation of any form, under the
following conditions:

 A. No part of the debie1 software, whether in its original form, a
 modified form, or translated into another language, shall be used to
 operate a space-based instrument for the detection of micro-meteoroids
 or space debris. Violation of this condition makes the violator liable
 for financial compensation to Patria Aviation Oy and Space Systems
 Finland Ltd.

 B. Any publication of the debie1 software or of any data or results
 (including but not limited to results of tests or analyses) obtained by
 using the software, whether the software was used in original,
 modified, or translated form, shall include the information that the
 software is based on the DEBIE-1 on-board software developed by Space
 Systems Finland Ltd for Patria Aviation Oy.

 C. Any extract, modification, or translation of the debie1 software
 shall include in the code or in accompanying files text that

   (1) credits Patria Aviation Oy and Space Systems Finland Ltd
       as the developers of the DEBIE-1 instrument and its on-board
       software, respectively, and

   (2) explains that the software has been extracted, modified, or
       translated and is not the original or complete form of the
       software.

 D. The debie1 software is released "as is" with no claim or guarantee
 that the software is apt or useful for any specific purpose. Neither
 Patria Aviation Oy nor Space Systems Finland Ltd nor Tidorum Ltd
 accepts any responsibility or liability for direct or indirect damages
 that may result from any use of the software, whether such use is
 allowed or forbidden under these conditions. All use of the software is
 at the user's own risk and cost. Neither Patria Aviation Oy nor Space
 Systems Finland Ltd nor Tidorum Ltd are obliged to supply any form of
 technical support to the users nor to provide the users with updates or
 corrections to the software, nor are they obliged to maintain any
 download site or archive for the software nor to answer or fulfil any
 requests to supply the sofware.

 E. Any redistribution of the software or a part of it, whether in
 original, modified, or translated form, shall impose these same
 conditions (or stricter conditions) on the recipients.

The permissions hereby granted apply only to the debie1 benchmark
software and do not imply any transfer, reduction, or limitation of the
ownership, copyright, or other rights held by Patria Aviation Oy and
Space Systems Finland Ltd in the original DEBIE-1 on-board software and
in other past or future versions of that software. Note that the DEBIE-1
instrument also goes by the names DEBIE-I and DEBIE. The instrument's
on-board software also goes by the name DEBIE DPU software.

Signatures:

Harri Lähti, Patria Aviation Oy, on 5.5.2014

Tuomas TalviOja, Space Systems Finland Oy, on 8.5.2014

Niklas Holsti, Tidorum Ltd, on 8.5.2014
